README.md, before:

# Simple CRUD App with React, Node, Postgres

A simple project to refresh my memory on React, Node and explore TypeScript.

## To run server:

- CD `notes-app-server`
- Cmd: `npm start`

## To run frontend:

- CD `notes-app`
- Cmd: `npm start`

## Database Configuration:

- Using ElephantSQL
- Create table with SQL by clicking on the instance, then left panel will have `Browser` tab to click.
- Create the table with desired attributes (ex):

```
CREATE TABLE public."Note" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  title VARCHAR(255),
  content TEXT
);
```

- Populate table then with desired attributes (ex):

```
INSERT INTO public."Note" (title, content)
VALUES ('test title', 'test content bla bla');
```

## Import CSV to Postgresql (Heroku host ex.):

- Connect to Heroku CLI and create app to hold DB
  `heroku create <app name> --region eu`

- Provision db:
  `heroku addons:create heroku-postgresql:mini`

- Push table to PG db:
  `heroku pg:psql -a < tableschema.sql` (Name the .sql file what you want)
- (In separate terminal) Login into DB: `psql --host=<host> --port=5432 --username=<username> --password --dbname=<dbname>` (details from db instance in Heroku > dashboard > app name > resources > addon tile for postgres > settings > credentials)
- Drop, check or redo permissions:

```
DROP SCHEMA public CASCADE; <-- drop tables
CREATE SCHEMA public; <-- This reinstates the permissions so you can redo push step above
```

- Verify table created with `\dt` command once logged into DB in separate terminal.

- Enter heroku postgres interface on cli: `heroku pg:psql -a <app name>`

- Migrate CSV to database (in order of the column headers): `\copy "Ioc"(id,url,created_at,updated_at,removed_date,status,report_method_one,report_method_two,form,host,follow_up_date,follow_up_count,comments) FROM './src/data/iocs.csv' WITH DELIMITER ',' NULL AS 'null' CSV HEADER;`

`\copy "Form"(name,url) FROM './src/data/forms.csv' WITH DELIMITER ',' NULL AS 'null' CSV HEADER;`

`\copy "Host"(name,email) FROM './src/data/hosts.csv' WITH DELIMITER ',' NULL AS 'null' CSV HEADER;`

- If you forget to set, in the prisma schema, to accept null values (use `?` after type in model) you can modify the tables:

```
ALTER TABLE "<name>"
ALTER COLUMN <column name> DROP NOT NULL;
```

## Seed db with prisma:
- `npx prisma db push` (generate your Prisma client and create the database tables.)
- Verify creation of tables with `\dt`
- View table properties `\d+ "Table name"`
- Exit with `\q`
- `npx prisma db seed` (currently not functional. Seed with migrate csv step above in pgsql terminal through heroku.)
- Issues establishing connection to Database or DATABASE_URL not found error from schema, run `npx prisma generate` again.


To do:
- Configure server endpoints: Update & Create
- Create Edit endpoint
- Fix front end data model and table display
- Fix seed command.
- Add form and host from db to select drop down in update & create forms

Commit message:

updates names and form defaults

README.md, after:

# Simple CRUD App with React, Node, Postgres

A simple project to refresh my memory on React, Node and explore TypeScript.

## To run server:

- CD `notes-app-server`
- Cmd: `npm start`

## To run frontend:

- CD `notes-app`
- Cmd: `npm start`

## Database Configuration:

- Using ElephantSQL
- Create table with SQL by clicking on the instance, then left panel will have `Browser` tab to click.
- Create the table with desired attributes (ex):

```
CREATE TABLE public."Note" (
  id SERIAL PRIMARY KEY,
  title VARCHAR(255),
  content TEXT
);
```

- Populate table then with desired attributes (ex):

```
INSERT INTO public."Note" (title, content)
VALUES ('test title', 'test content bla bla');
```

## Import CSV to Postgresql (Heroku host ex.):

- Connect to Heroku CLI and create app to hold DB
  `heroku create <app name> --region eu`

- Provision db:
  `heroku addons:create heroku-postgresql:mini`

- Push table to PG db:
  `heroku pg:psql -a < tableschema.sql` (Name the .sql file what you want)
- (In separate terminal) Login into DB: `psql --host=<host> --port=5432 --username=<username> --password --dbname=<dbname>` (details from db instance in Heroku > dashboard > app name > resources > addon tile for postgres > settings > credentials)
- Drop, check or redo permissions:

```
DROP SCHEMA public CASCADE; <-- drop tables
CREATE SCHEMA public; <-- This reinstates the permissions so you can redo push step above
```

- Verify table created with `\dt` command once logged into DB in separate terminal.

- Enter heroku postgres interface on cli: `heroku pg:psql -a <app name>`

- Migrate CSV to database (in order of the column headers): `\copy "Ioc"(id,url,created_at,updated_at,removed_date,status,report_method_one,report_method_two,form,host,follow_up_date,follow_up_count,comments) FROM './src/data/iocs.csv' WITH DELIMITER ',' NULL AS 'null' CSV HEADER;`

`\copy "Form"(name,url) FROM './src/data/forms.csv' WITH DELIMITER ',' NULL AS 'null' CSV HEADER;`

`\copy "Host"(name,email) FROM './src/data/hosts.csv' WITH DELIMITER ',' NULL AS 'null' CSV HEADER;`

- If you forget to set, in the prisma schema, to accept null values (use `?` after type in model) you can modify the tables:

```
ALTER TABLE "<name>"
ALTER COLUMN <column name> DROP NOT NULL;
```

## Seed db with prisma:
- `npx prisma db push` (generate your Prisma client and create the database tables.)
- Verify creation of tables with `\dt`
- View table properties `\d+ "Table name"`
- Exit with `\q`
- `npx prisma db seed` (currently not functional. Seed with migrate csv step above in pgsql terminal through heroku.)
- Issues establishing connection to Database or DATABASE_URL not found error from schema, run `npx prisma generate` again.


To do:
- Fix front end data model and table display
- Fix seed command.
- Add form and host from db to select drop down in update & create forms
- Create create pages for form and host in settings.
- Create create endpoint for form and host backend
- Add additional API call functions to show page
- Style show page
- Option/low priority (style app)
